- Quiet down, boy.
I said--
That kind still won't sleep?
I'm gonna show you what happens
when you boys don't keep quiet.
Get back in your rooms, now!
I told you to get to sleep.
I don't care if you can't.
The hell?
I'll make you sleep, boy.
- Leave him alone!
- Cody?
- That is not my name.
- No don't.
-  To the
purely physiological,
like apnea and narcolepsy,or Kleine Levins.
Kleine Levin mainly
affects teenage boys.
Anyone know the symptoms?
- Are you even listening?
- Your foster
uncle's elaborating
on peculiar brain functionduring Kleine Levin syndrome.
Yeah, child's play.
You didn't sleep
again last night?
Karla, it's not good for you.
- You have late nights, too.
- Yeah, but look at
what I've been reading.
There is a Javanese demon,
which if you give it your soulwill make you rich overnight,
but will turn you
into a wild boar.
What?
- Really?
- People in Indonesia
have seen these things,
there have been
documented reports.
- There are some
sleeping disorders
that are so rare they only occur
in a handful of the
world's population.
Fatal Familial Insomnia,
FFI affects 40
families, worldwide.
Put simply, FFI prevents youfrom sleeping, until you die.
It's genetic, but random.
As the condition progresses,
the patient is unable
to reach any REM sleep.
In its final stages,
the brain atrophies.
The patient becomes catatonic,
then organ failure,
and then death.
There are cases where
chronic insomniacs,
like an FFI patient, canbecome extremely unstable,
dangerous even.
Take this man, for example.
Now he went without
sleep for about 30 days.
He was extremely paranoid,
delusional.
Finally, his wife and childwere found dead, murdered.
Some people want to link
satanism to this guy,
claim it's evidence
of demonic possession,
but not me.
We stick to medicine
in this class.
And that's it for today,
you've been great.
There might be a quiz
next week on FFI,
Kleine Levin.- Catch up with you later.
-  And
their associated
physiological effects.
- I'm sorry, all we can do now
is make your
brother comfortable.
- No, I can't accept that.
There's still plenty of options.
- You can see, he's
steadily declining.
His energy levels are constantlyfluctuating, Miss Dawson.
Without sleep for
this long it's just--
- Look, in 2008, Mexican
doctors ran a drug trial
that directly provoked thelapsed prion 23 in the brain
to start rebuilding
proper sleep chemistry.
The patient actually
slept for a whole hour.
Now, I know it's not legalhere, but we need to start--
- But what happened after that?
Did the patient recover?
- You're still only
a student, Karla.
You need to trust
our experience.
Since your parents died,especially the way they did,
Blake's never had a normal life.
We always knew this
day would come.
We can't do anything
more for Blake here.
It's better he's at home inthese final stages, anyway.
I'm sorry.
- If you send him home,he doesn't have a chance.
- It can help to
talk to someone.
I could ask the chaplain tocome down, he is a good man.
- Faith isn't gonna
help my brother.
Excuse me.
- Hey, KJ.
- Hey.
- They are pulling me out,
aren't they?
I just need a goodnight's rest, that's all.
I've gotta practise
counting sheep.
- Hey Blake.
- Hey Pat.
- Hey.
- Hi.
Blake, I have things to do,so I will see you later.
- So, how's today?
- Yeah, fine.
Just I don't think
we're gonna be
smoking buddies
again any time soon.
- It's too late, I've quit.
- Yeah, right.
Oh yeah, and it's working.
- As long as you
keep munching, yeah.
- Okay.
All right, deal up, let's go.
- Seven.- Let's do it, all right.
-  To give Blakethe treatment he needs,
we have to take him somewherewe can't be observed.
-  No, it's
too dangerous,
we need to petition
the hospital.
- Blake doesn't
have time for that.
- What if he has a seizure,
and we don't have
the right staff?
Or the right drugs?
I've never even seen this place.
- It's been used for thiskind of treatment before.
Remember when I told
you that your dad
took your mom to a
special facility.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, well I haven't beencompletely honest with you.
It's an abandoned basementhere on this campus.
- What?
- It was the only
way we could conceal
those kind of drug trials.
I have two patients down thereright now, who I'm treating.
For those two people,
just like Blake,
it's this, or death.
Without proper care,
Blake won't last the week.
Wouldn't you do anything
you can to save him?
- I just heard.
Rob's right.
You know if we can't
work inside the system
then we're gonna have
to get outside of it.
- He didn't exactly invite you.
- You're gonna need
my help, Karla.
And if Rob's got
an issue with me,
then he's just gonna
have to live with it.
You can do this.
It's gonna work.
I'm just gonna grab his chart.
- Yeah.
-  I don't know,
she's come around.
-  As you leave
every morning.
- I think visiting
hours are over.
- Who were you talking to?
- What?
- I've got it.
Let's go.
Hey B.
- Hey.
- You ready?
- You need a pharmacologist.
- Why you?
- Because you can trust me.
- Can we?
- Pat stays.
- All right then,
everybody ready?
Hop in.
Watch your step.
- How'd you find this place?
- One night we were
students, blind drunk,
me and your dad stumbled onthe elevator, keys inside.
Years later, we remembered,
and so we came down
here to treat your mom.
No one knows about it.
Everyone's forgotten
it even exists.
So, this is your new workspace.
-  Who are they?
-  That's Chris, hehas near-fatal sleep apnea.
And Angela, violent
night-terrors.
They came to me in thehospital, and asked for help.
I'm doing what I can.
We have everything
down here, a full lab,
medications I've
stashed over the years,
and ironically,
sleeping quarters.
Karla, now's our chance
to make things right.
- Why the lock?
- Sleep disorders
can be unpredictable.
It's just a precaution.
Hi guys.
I'll be coming and going
to keep up appearances.
Now get to work.
We'll see you soon.
Good luck, Blake.
- Are you okay with this, B?
- I'm good.
A splash of paint.
Wide-screen TV.
Could be real nice.
- Well, I'm never
too far away, okay?
- Okay.
- Here.
- You ever played this game?
- So, what's with
you and Patrick?
- What do you mean?
- Oh come on.
- We used to date,
a while ago.
It doesn't matter now.
- Wait a minute,
you and jockstrap used to date,
and I'm only finding
out about this now?
- I think we have
more important things
to be thinking about.
- Fine.
Fine.
- Okay, so remember
how we had segments,
so this is where this comes in.
This is the longest road, soit's worth two victory points,
and this card goes to theplayer with the longest road
of at least five segments, okay.
So another player who
builds a longer road,
they can take this card
off you, all right?
Still following?
- So, we know that barbituratesare having zero effect,
but have you heard about
this doxycycline trial?
Yeah, I'll tell you
about it tomorrow.
I'm gonna call it anight, and you should too.
You need sleep.
- Yeah, no, I will.
I'm just gonna work
a little bit longer.
- Fine.
- If you want to sleep,
you should sleep.
- No, I'll just stay
up all night then.
- Hey.
- What?
- Hey, just help me a sec.
- What's going on?
- I think there might be
something behind this.
- What, like a secret door?
- Yeah, maybe.
- Actually?
- Can you just help me?
- It's someone's journal.
Priest,
Father Francis
Sangermano, Sangermano.
Creepy.
- What the hell?
Look.
- What?
- Dad.
- I don't believe it.
- This is Doctor William Dawson.
After exhausting other options,
we've come here to try
out experimental drugs
on patients with potentiallyfatal sleep disorders,
including my wife, Sarah.
I know I'm this close
to the solution.
I know it.
Is it off?
Filming?
-  Yeah, ready.
- Okay good.
So day five,
hopefully one of the drugswill help them return
to normal sleep and normal life.
- Any change?
Oh, sorry, still not used to it.
So, anything?
- No, nothing.
- Perhaps we should
take this opportunity--
-  This is
the devil's work.
- Francis, you're here.
Francis, this is my goodfriend, Doctor Rob Atwood.
- Right, Sarah talks
about you all the time.
-  How is she?
- She's okay, no sleep yet,
but she seems to be improving.
- You look tired, William.
You should get some rest.
-  And Father Sangermano,what does a man of faith
think about what Doctor Dawson
is trying to achieve
here with science?
- What is this, "60 Minutes"?
-  It could
if we cure them.
- It's a misconception
that the church
is against medical science.
Anything to help soothe
the troubled soul,
provided it's not hurtinganyone, is a good thing.
I'm just gonna say hi to Sarah.
- Okay.
- So, a priest?
- Yeah I know,
he's an old friend.
He's the one that married us.
Besides, Sarah wants him here.
- Yeah, but--
- Sorry to interrupt.
William I--
-  Francis, what is it?
- Sarah, she,
she said something.
-  What?
- She wouldn't have,
she can't have.
- It wasn't just that.
It was her voice.
It was as if someone
else was speaking.
- I'm, I don't get it, who?
-  I need to go,
and talk to a friend of mine.
I'll be back soon.
-  Francis?
- Why hide these?
- I don't know.
- We have to tell Rob.
- Maybe, maybe we shouldn't.
- What?
Why wouldn't we tell him?
The information
in here could help
fast-track Blake's treatment.
We could find out
more about my parents.
- Yeah but, why didn't
he mention this to you?
- Well,
how could he know
they were hidden?
- Yeah, but he knew thatthey were made, he's in them.
I mean, don't you think
that's a little strange
that he didn't tell
you that there was
a record of your
parents' final days?
Look, let's just
watch them first,
and get a bit moreinformation, then we tell him.
Where's the harm in that?
- Okay.
Let's watch the next one then.
- What are you doing?
- Working.
What are you doing?
- Karla, you're tired.
Let me take your shift.
- No thanks.
Hey.
Blake.
Blake?
- Hey KJ.
- Hey.
You were,
what were you doing?
- I don't know.
- Well you couldn't move
at all yesterday so,
you must be feeling better.
- Yeah.
Feeling much better now.
Thank you.
- Hey.
So, how did Blake respondto the new combination?
- Yeah, he seems
to be doing better.
He's got a lot more mobility.
Still no REM sleep though.
Is there something that
you needed, Patrick?
- Yeah actually,
I wanted to talk.
- Well, there's nothing to say.
- Come on, we could at
least clear the air.
- It's not logical tokeep doing the same thing
and expecting a
different result.
- Relationships aren't
about logic, Karla,
they're about the way we feel.
- Fine, I feel like as soonas things got hard with Blake,
you just walked out on me.
- I never walked out on Blake.
- No, you walked out onme, Patrick, you just left.
What?
- I'm sorry.
- Yeah well, what good
does that do me now?
How are you doing?
Who keeps moving this?
-  It's evil.
- Angela, did you say something?
-  Okay, so Williamyou have to end this.
- What?
-  It's gone too far.
- William, what is he
actually doing here?
- Sarah asked for me to be here.
Open your eyes.
You don't have to
be religious to know
that what's going on in
that room isn't natural.
- Nothing here is natural,that's what we're trying to fix.
We're trying to get
her and the others
back to a normal life.
I'm trying to save them.
- Something is wrong with Sarah,
something more
than that disease.
She won't talk to me.
When she looks at
me, it terrifies me.
- Well maybe that's becauseevery time you come here,
you terrify her, and therest of with your crazy talk.
- I spent some time
with this, William.
I've spoken to my Cardinal.
I believe
that Sarah may be
possessed.
-  Jesus Christ.
- Francis, listen toyourself, that's ridiculous.
-  What the hell?
It's here.
William you have
to listen to me.
- You did just--
- Yeah.
I sure did.
- Okay, day eight.
We've been progressing--
- He's here, he's
inside the room!
- Okay,
they're now displaying
extreme paranoia,
except for Sarah, who
is quite different.
We're gonna need to try
some stronger sedation.
It'll be okay.
We'll go in there together.
- Shit, his shots.
- No, look.
-  My God!
- Blake.
Don't watch any more without me.
- Hey KJ.
- How are you feeling?
- Better, good.
- You feel like maybe, youwant to get some sleep?
- Maybe.
Still counting sheep.
- Are you okay?
- He's trying to get me.
- Who is?
- Blake, he keeps on
whispering to someone,
but nobody's there.
You have to get me out of here.
- It's okay.
- I can't stay here.
- We're gonna make you better.
We're gonna make you all better.
- Shhh.
- Did you see that?
- What?
- Angela, she grabbed me.
She was saying
stuff about Blake.
- Huh?
- Angela, she
grabbed me, just now.
- Karla, I was watching
you the whole time,
I didn't see any of that.
Look, if you're
worried about Angela,
she'll be fine once
the sedatives set in.
Until Rob gets back, I'mkeeping a close eye on her.
You need to get some rest.
- No,
no I'm gonna,
I'm gonna stay up,
and keep watch.
You know, make sure
they're all okay.
Hey Pat?
No, nothing.
Never mind.
- Please, please.
Just leave me alone.
- Let me out!
Let me out!
- Angela don't.
- A present for you, KJ.
-  No!
- You okay?
- Blake's looking at me,
almost like he was pleased.
I think he told her to do it.
- Hon, she was really sick.
I don't think--
- I know what I saw.
- I believe you, Karla.
- Well whatever happened,this can't continue.
- But Blake--
- I had to contact
Angela's family.
We can't lie them
about what happened,
where it happened.
This is on me.
You guys weren't here, I'lltake full responsibility.
- But what about Blake?
- We have to take Angela home.
After that we'll findsomeplace else to treat Blake.
I'm sorry.
- Wait a second,
where is Patrick?
I went and told
him what happened.
- I knew he'd take off atthe first sign of trouble.
He's unbelievable.
- I'll stay with
Blake and Chris,
you take Angela upstairs.
Go, I'll watch them.
- It's stuck, it won't turn.
- What?
- It won't budge.
No, the button doesn'twork unless it's unlocked.
- Here, let me try it.
- See, it's not gonna work.
- Okay, stairs.
-  Is there
another stairwell?
- No.
- Of course.
Awesome.
- What are we gonna do?
How are we gonna
get out of here?
- There's a phone.
I'll contact the hospitalabout getting us out.
Yes, I know.
I know.
Thank you.
- Well?
- Maintenance said they'll bedown here some time tomorrow,
could be the morning.
- Don't they know
we're stuck down here?
- We have until morning?
-  Yeah.
- We shouldn't waste that time.
-  Karla's right,we should do what we can.
Stay focused on what you
came down here to do,
and we'll be out of
here before you know it.
Patrick, could you
help me with the body?
- Hey?
- Hey.
How are you feeling?
- Me?
I'm fine.
Angie, she--
What happened?
I can only remember--
- She,
I guess her condition
got the better of her.
- I guess she's in
a better place now.
- Do you remember whenRob got us those rabbits?
- Millie and
Anna Claire.
Millie died.
- Yeah.
And I was so worried about
what happened, you know?
Where she went.
And you just said,
"It's okay KJ,
she's in heaven."
You just believed it.
Like you knew it was true.
I mean you could just
do that, just believe.
I didn't trust God.
I didn't feel safe
with the idea.
And then I couldn't
understand Him.
You got sick and,
I started to hate Him,
like really hate Him.
And I want to believe
like you, I do.
But I can't.
Now I deal like this.
- KJ?
I'm gonna kill you, justlike I did your cunt mother.
- Hey.
I spoke to Alice.
She told me that you,
are you okay?
- I meant what I said.
Blake.
- He can't have.
You imagined it.
You're exhausted.
- I didn't imagine it.
Can you just believe me?
There's something going on here.
Something bad.
- Like what?
- I want to show
you something but,
I'm worried you're
gonna run away again.
- Karla, it was a mistake.
- You just abandoned me, Pat.
- You were so focused
on curing Blake,
I couldn't see that thatwas more important than me,
than us.
I never should have left.
Hey,
there is nowhere
else I want to be.
I'm so sorry.
-  This isMartin, he has cataplexy,
which commenced
at around age six.
-  Five.
-  I'm sorry, five.
How are you feeling?
What's that, can you
speak up for the camera?
- Stop yelling at me.
Stop yelling at me.
It's your voice.
His voice.
-  Whose voice
is inside your head?
This is Ursula.
Kleine Levin syndrome.
Potentially
life-threatening she--
What is it Ursula?
Sarah, Fatal Familial Insomnia.
I'm here baby, talk to me.
How are you feeling?
- Here sometimes.
Gone sometimes.
-  Gone,
where do you go?
- With him.
-  Who?
- Between awake and asleep.
That's where he is.
Trying to get in.
-  Who is he?
- Iddimu.
-  Who's Iddimu?
You've improved so much,
it'll only be a
little longer, Sarah.
- Why do you keep
calling me Sarah?
-  When's thelast time you slept, doctor?
- Jesus!
- She shouldn't be
able to see us, right?
- I'm getting Francis.
- No, William.
William?
-  You gotta see this.
- No no William, I'm surethis can be explained.
- Oh my God.
-  Let me out!
- It was here a minute ago,
Sarah, she was staring
straight at us.
- Those are Bible pages.
Mother of God.
You have to end this, now!
William.
- Sarah, say something, letme know you're all right.
We have to go in there.
-  She just has to sleep.
-  She no
longer needs to sleep.
-  Hey.
- What is it, Alice?
- You both have to see this.
- This had better be good.
- Okay okay look, Iddimu.
The one who takes us fromthe nocturnal refuge,
the parasite that will
destroy all things.
It says here, that
when a demon ruled,
there was a land without sleep.
But God overpowered
him and created sleep
to protect us from
his influence.
So if you stay awake toolong, the demon will get in.
It must have been what
happened to your mom.
- What?
- Don't try and tell me that
what was on those tapes
was purely medical.
Sangermano researched this,
and he put everything
right here.
I think you're right, Karla,
there is something
happening here.
- Yeah, there are sickpeople who need our help.
- It's not Blake's sickness
that's causing him
to be like this.
Listen,
once the demon has awoken,
he will feed on the
souls of innocents.
When they hear his
seductive whisper,
they will give their
souls to the void
and increase his power.
Once the demon has
consumed what he needs,
he can be set free.
- What does that mean?
- No need for a
human host anymore.
- So, how do we helpBlake, how do we stop this?
- An exorcism.
- I've heard enough.
You don't believe this, do you?
- The medications
aren't working.
An exorcism is the only way.
The incantations are right here.
- Come on.
- Just because you can't see it,
doesn't mean it's not happening.
It's our only choice.
- So, you want to give
Blake an exorcism?
- You have to have faith.
- Blake doesn't
have time for this.
We need to keep treating
him with real medicine.
This is occult bullshit.
She's letting her
witchcraft fantasies
threaten Blake's life.
- Hey, I'm right here, you know.
- You're letting your stupidlittle witchcraft shit
threaten Blake's life.
- I love Blake just
as much as you do.
I would never endanger hislife on a whim, you asshole.
- Alice?
- Look, I know that
this sounds crazy,
but I've seen things
that I can't explain.
- How can you think somethinglike this is even possible?
- Because I know Blake,
and I knew my mom.
- You know, those tapes
don't make any sense.
- Yeah, I know.
- You know, I mean thingswere getting hectic,
they were about to
go inside that room.
- Yeah?
- Why would you not film that?
- Well, we've watched
everything in the box.
There are no more tapes.
Maybe one got lost or damaged.
- Maybe?
Unless things got crazy
and whoever hid them
didn't have time to.
- What?
- The camera.
We didn't check to
see if there's a tape
still left inside.
- Bygone era.
- Whoever finds this,
please, please give
this to my kids.
They deserve to
know what happened
and what I've done.
Karla,
Blake, I swear,
I brought her here to save her.
I'm sorry.
Goodbye.
Turn that thing off, now.
- Faith is our only weapon.
Make sure you follow
my lead, understood?
- This is madness.
-  I won't ask again.
-  Of course, Father.
- William?
William?
-  Sarah.
- You're not welcome
here, priest.
I'll take this whore with meif you come one step closer.
-  Sarah, please.
- William's dead.
We're all dead.
- I know, we've got
to get out of here.
-  Weaver can use this.
We've got to keep
this as a record, too.
- Give it to me.
Give it to me.
You're a priest.
You've ruined everything.
- I don't know who
might find these tapes,
but Robert, Doctor RobertAtwood is responsible
for the deaths.
- We have to warn Alice.
- Alice?
-  Alice?
- No.
- Do you believe now, KJ?
- No!
- Oh come on.
There's no dial tone.
Fuck!
- Patrick, calm down.
Stop okay, please?
- We have to go, right now.
- I'm not leaving without Blake.
- No Karla, we have to go.
Don't you get it, we've
gotta get out of here.
- Patrick, calm down
okay, and listen to me.
Sangermano wrote the
whole thing down.
I know what to do.
- Nothing can stop this,
we have to go right now.
- I'm not going anywhere
without my brother.
I'm staying.
Look at me, look
at me, look at me.
Patrick.
I need you.
Okay?
It's gonna be okay.
Yeah?
- Yeah.
Okay.
- Okay.
-  The door.
-  Patrick.
Pat?
Christopher.
Hey, Chris.
Chris, you okay?
-  His eyes.
How could he do this?
- Let's get Blake.
Hey,
you okay?
- Yeah, I'm okay.
- I don't know
what I saw to read.
- You'd better figure it out.
- The Lord is my shepherd,I shall not want.
He leads me by the stillwaters, he restores my soul.
Yay, though I walk the valleyof the shadow of death.
- It's not working.
- I shall fear no evil.
Iddimu, you are revealed.
I beg you through the
intercession and help
of the Archangels Michael.
- Robert.
- Stay out of this.
Give me that book.
Give it to me.
- Keep reading.
- I beg through the
intercession and help
of the Archangel Michael,Rafael, and Gabriel.
Of the evil one.
Patrick!
- You're insane.
- Hey Rob.
- You're okay, you're okay.
You're okay.
Nope.
Patrick?
Patrick.
Patrick!
Why didn't you just kill me?
- The more a demon consumes,the stronger he becomes.
I needed as many
of you as possible.
- So is this what
your life amounts to?
Is killing people
who trusted you?
You were like a father to me.
You're a coward.
- What do you know of courage?
Nothing.
I was trapped,
tormented every day,
and he saved me.
He took away the monster
that made my life hell,
who made me want to end
it every single day.
There was another boy, Cody.
Iddimu possessed him,
and I saw a power I
never knew could exist.
And in an instant
everything changed.
But Cody took back control andstopped him from getting in,
the only way he could.
-  I can't
let him back in.
- No!
-  Iddimu
gave me my freedom,
and I owe him the same.
I researched him for years.
I tried to get
him to wake in me,
but he never took over.
I only felt his presence
lingering at the edge
of consciousness.
When you stay awake too long,
hear things you shouldn't,
and see things thataren't there, that's him,
trying to get in.
To help Iddimu I needed a host.
I reconnected with Williamonce I heard about your mother,
an FFI sufferer,
the perfect candidate.
I suggested the trials,
reminded William of this
place, and we began.
But then, the priest arrived.
Whatever he did to Sarah,
after she killed your father,
she killed herself.
Once again, Iddimu
was denied freedom.
After I recite this incantation,
Iddimu will be free again.
- Robert?
- You can finally
sleep now, hon.
My lord, Iddimu, scourge
of the nocturnal refuge,
ruler of the ever-waking fire,
come forth.
- Spirits whose die king, amen.
In the name of the Lord, amen,
he be gone from the
body of this man,
so he may rest--
Blake it's me.
It's KJ.
- Your brother is gone.
- I beg you Lord, throughthe intercession and help
of the Archangels Michael,Rafael, and Gabriel,
to deliver thou brother whois enslaved by the evil one.
-  My lord
Iddimu, come forth
and break the bonds
of your human prison.
-  Nothing controls me.
- No.
No.
My lord,
I can set you free.
- Blake, stop.
Don't let him win, okay?
I need you to help me beat him.
I need you to try.
I need you to fight.
Blake!
Blake?
Hey, hey.
- KJ.
I'm so sorry.
- It's okay.
It's over now.